---
image: /assets/newsevents/headings/37c04d19-11f5-4ef1-a680-790a149461d8.png
event: false
title: 'Top 10 Data Security and Privacy Technologies '
id: 7ede24b6-0df8-445b-8532-968d7ff970e4
categories:
  - general
---
<p>Forrester Research recently investigated the current state of the 20 most important data protection tools. Based on Forrester’s analysis, here’s Forbes top 10 data security and privacy technologies:<br>
</p>
<p><fbs-ad></fbs-ad>
</p>
<ol>
	<li>Cloud data protection (CDP): Encrypting sensitive data before it goes to the cloud with the enterprise (not the cloud provider) maintaining the keys. </li>
	<li>Tokenization: Substituting a randomly generated value—the token—for sensitive data such as credit card numbers, bank account numbers, and social security numbers. A</li>
	<li>Big data encryption: Using encryption and other obfuscation techniques to obscure data in relational databases as well as data stored in the distributed computing architectures of big data platforms, to protect personal privacy, achieve compliance, and reduce the impact of cyber attacks and accidental data leaks. </li>
	<li>Data access governance: Providing visibility into what and where sensitive data exists, and data access permissions and activities, allowing organizations to manage data access permissions and identify sensitive stale data.</li>
	<li>Consent/data subject rights management: Managing consent of customers and employees, as well as enforcing their rights over the personal data that they share, allowing organizations to search, identify, segment, and amend personal data as necessary. </li>
	<li>Data privacy management solutions: Platforms that help operationalize privacy processes and practices, supporting privacy by design and meeting compliance requirements and initiating auditable workflows. </li>
	<li>Data discovery and flow mapping: Scanning data repositories and resources to identify existing sensitive data, classifying it appropriately in order to identify compliance issues, apply the right security controls, or make decisions about storage optimization, deletion, archiving, legal holds, and other data governance matters.  </li>
	<li>Data classification: Parsing structured and unstructured data, looking for data that matches predefined patterns or custom policies. </li>
	<li>Enterprise key management (EKM): Unifying the disparate encryption key life-cycle processes across heterogeneous products. </li>
	<li>Application-level encryption: Encrypting data within the app itself as it’s generated or processed and before it’s committed and stored at the database level. </li>
</ol>
<p>Find out more at: <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/gilpress/2017/10/17/top-10-hot-data-security-and-privacy-technologies/#357832b86b3f">https://www.forbes.com/sites/gilpress/2017/10/17/t...</a><br>
</p>