---
image: /assets/newsevents/headings/070f7a2b-c19c-4137-a3e3-c42d47669351.png
event: false
title: 'D3.1 Overview of Existing Technologies: the new report by e-SIDES is now online'
id: 521cf712-4f27-4903-bf4b-f1af2398cc59
categories:
  - general
phase:
  - phase-2
---
This report provides an overview of existing approaches, methods and technologies that may have the
potential to address ethical, legal, societal and economic issues raised by big data applications. Among
the issues are threats to privacy and self-determination, strong interdependencies, limited
trustworthiness and lack of accountability. While numerous issues are taken into account, threats to
privacy receive particular attention. Based on a review of the comprehensive body of literature,
technologies considered as privacy enhancing or privacy-preserving were identified and assigned to
eleven classes. The classes are anonymisation, sanitisation, encryption, multi-party computation, access
control, policy enforcement, accountability, data provenance, transparency, access and portability, and
user control.
<p><br>
</p>
<p>As the project aims to complement other research on privacy-preserving big data technologies and datadriven
innovation funded by the European Union under the H2020 programme, the role the classes of
technologies play in such projects was also studied. For this purpose, project representatives were
interviewed personally or asked to provide relevant information per e-mail. Moreover, the websites as
well as already published deliverables of relevant projects were analysed. It seems that the emergence of
big data changes the protection of privacy as well as the relevance of other related issues significantly.
Finding an adequate balance between the protection of privacy and maintaining the utility of big data
seems to be challenging. The amounts of attention that other projects funded by the European Union
devote to privacy and related issues vary significantly.
	<br>
</p>
<p>Download the deliverable here: <a href="http://e-sides.eu/resources/deliverable-31-overview-of-existing-technologies">http://e-sides.eu/resources/deliverable-31-overvie...</a>
</p>