---
image: /assets/newsevents/headings/bigdataconference.png
event: true
news_event:
  - 
    type: event
    venue: European Big Data Value Forum 2017
    address:
      address1: Palais des Congres
      address2: null
      address3: null
      city: Versailles
      Country: France
    date_and_time: 2017-11-22 16:30
    external_link: http://www.european-big-data-value-forum.eu/
title: 'e-SIDES Workshop at EBDVF 2017: Towards Privacy-Preserving Big Data'
id: 7c24a86a-2fff-4f61-98b7-3d41347ea9fc
categories:
  - general
phase:
  - phase-2
---
<h2>About the workshop</h2>
<p>Data-driven innovation is deeply transforming society and the economy. Although this transformation brings huge opportunities, and enormous economic and social benefits for individuals and businesses, a greater access and use of data creates new challenges in many domains. The crucial implications affect privacy, security, as well as democracy and participation. To ensure a fair balance between data protection and data-driven innovation, legislators are pushing the research and business actors to consider and address these challenges emerging from the development and use of big data and analytics.
</p>
<p>To draw the attention of the big data community, and discuss how big data technologies may help overcoming these challenges and preventing loss of privacy, <strong>e-SIDES - in collaboration with BDVe</strong> - will be hosting the workshop “<strong>Towards Privacy-Preserving Big Data</strong>” at the European Big Data Value Forum on November 22th 2017.
</p>
<p>Please check the conference program! e-SIDES workshop is on Day 2, parallel session "Privacy-Preserving Technologies and Human Factors".
</p>
<p>Chair: Jean-Christophe Pazzaglia (BDVe Project Management and Chief Support Architect Higher Education & Research at SAP), and by Richard Stevens (e-SIDES Coordinator and Research Director at IDC)
</p>
<p>Keynote speaker: Prof. Ernesto Damiani, Università degli Studi di Milano
</p>
<p>Workshop format: the session will be opened with a keynote presentation and followed by a lively discussion, thanks to the participation of panelists from different domains (research, business and technology) who will address key questions like:
</p>
<ul>
	<li>Resolving the contradiction between big data innovation and privacy, how to choose your approach and how to communicate it transparently to your users?</li>
	<li>Allowing privacy-preserving analytics in big data contexts, how much personal data end up in aggregated results or prediction models and how GDPR may apply?</li>
	<li>Meeting context-specific needs with the right big data architecture, how regulation or ethics may impact it?</li>
</ul>
<p>The attendees will be directly involved in the discussion with a live voting session and Q&A sessions. Coming to our workshop guaranties your chance to participate in the debate, have a say and decide how data is used in the future. The results will be collected in a position paper that will be shared on e-SIDES website.
</p>
<h2>Workshop agenda <br></h2>
<p>16.30           Welcome and introduction
</p>
<p>16.35           Keynote presentation: Prof E. Damiani, Università degli Studi di Milano
</p>
<p>16.45           Live voting session<br>
</p>
<p>16.50           Panel Session.
</p>
<ul>
	<li><i>Resolving the contradiction between big data innovation and privacy, how to choose your approach and how to communicate it transparently to your users?</i></li>
	<li><i>Allowing privacy-preserving analytics in big data contexts, how much personal data end up in aggregated results or prediction models and how GDPR may apply?</i></li>
	<li><i>Meeting context-specific needs with the right big data architecture, how regulation or ethics may impact it?</i></li>
</ul>
<p><i>Moderator Dr. Daniel Bachlechner, Fraunhofer ISI, e-SIDES<br></i>
</p>
<p><i>Main panel speakers:</i>
</p>
<p><i></i>
</p>
<ul>
	<li>Dr. Anna Zsofia Horvath, SODA</li>
	<li>Sabrina Kirrane, SPECIAL</li>
	<li>Jennifer Edmond, K-plex</li>
	<li>Gianluca Ripa, TT Transport</li>
	<li>Prof. Edwin Morley-Fletcher, My Health My Data</li>
	<li>Philip Carnelley, IDC</li>
</ul>
<p>e-SIDES will be also present in the exhibition of the event: you will find us at Stand 29, 2nd floor. We will welcome all interested attendees to present our work and future initiatives!
</p>
<h2>For more information</h2>
<p>Read more about the e-SIDES project at: <a href="http://www.e-sides.eu/">www.e-sides.eu</a> and about the event at: <a href="http://www.european-big-data-value-forum.eu/">www.european-big-data-value-forum.eu</a><br>
</p>
<p>Contact us: <a href="mailto:info@e-sides.eu">info@e-sides.eu</a>, or Stefania Aguzzi saguzzi@idc.com
</p>